Fortran Routines for Locally-Weighted Regression       31 Aug 1990

William S. Cleveland
Eric Grosse

Locally-weighted regression, or loess, is a procedure for estimating a
regression surface by a multivariate smoothing procedure: fitting a
linear or quadratic function of the independent variables in a moving
fashion that is analogous to how a moving average is computed for a
time series. Compared to classical approaches  - fitting global
parametric functions - loess substantially increases the domain of
surfaces that can be estimated without distortion. Also, a pleasant
fact about loess is that analogues of the statistical procedures used
in parametric function fitting - for example, ANOVA and t intervals -
involve statistics whose distributions are well approximated by
familiar distributions.

The file sample.f is an example main program which reads one line
	n p alpha totaldeg fcell
and then n lines of p+1 numbers (x,y).  The paramater alpha controls
the amount of smoothing;  a typical starting value might be .5;
totaldeg is the degree polynomials to use, either 1 or 2;  fcell is
a stopping criterion, typically set to alpha/5 or alpha/10.
For more detail on calling sequences of the Fortran routines, see
the file "internal".

Both single precision and double precision versions are available;
double is preferred when you use quadratic fitting on 32-bit machines
like IEEE standard, IBM, and VAX.

For the version distributed by electronic mail from netlib, subroutines
from linpack have been omitted.  If those are not already on your system,
   mail netlib@netlib.bell-labs.com
   send r1mach snrm2 ssvdc sqrdc sdot sqrsl isamax from linpack core
if you are using the single precision version;  for double precision,
   send d1mach dnrm2 dsvdc dqrdc ddot dqrsl idamax from linpack core.
When installing, don't forget to uncomment the appropriate DATA statements
in r1mach or d1mach, as described by the comments in those functions.

Bug reports are appreciated.  Send electronic mail to
	ehg@netlib.bell-labs.com
including the words "this is not spam" in the Subject line
or send paper mail to
	Eric Grosse
	Bell Labs 2T-502
	Murray Hill NJ 07974
Remember that this is experimental software distributed free of charge
and comes with no warranty!  Exercise professional caution.

Happy Smoothing!
